[Security Solution] Test plan for upgrading prebuilt rules without preview (Rule Updates table) v1 (#203331)
elastic/kibana: x-pack/plugins/security_solution/docs/testing/test_plans/detection_response/prebuilt_rules/upgrade.md

And user should see the number of rules available to upgrade (Z)
```

> ### Rule upgrade workflow: individual and bulk updates from Rule Updates table

Author: Splitted

And the user should not be able to upgrade them directly from the table
And there should be a message/tooltip indicating why the rule cannot be updated directly
```

#### **Scenario: User can upgrade multiple conflict-free prebuilt rules selected on the page**

**Automation**: 1 e2e test with mock rules + integration tests with mock rules that would test /status and /upgrade/\* endpoints in integration.

```Gherkin
Given X prebuilt rules are installed in Kibana
And for Y of the installed rules there are new versions available
And user is on the Rule Management page
When user opens the Rule Updates table
Then Y rules available for upgrade should be displayed in the table
When user selects <Z> rules, which have no upgrade conflicts
Then user should see a CTA to upgrade <Z> number of rules
When user clicks the CTA
Then success message should be displayed after upgrade
And all the <Z> upgraded rules should be removed from the table
And user should see the number of rules available to upgrade decreased by <Z> number of upgraded rules

Examples:
  | Z                               |
  | a few rules on the page, e.g. 2 |
  | all rules on the page, e.g. 12  |
```

> #### **Scenario: User cannot upgrade multiple prebuilt rules selected on the page when they have upgrade conflicts**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### **Scenario: User cannot upgrade selected prebuilt rules with conflicts**
```

Then user should see a CTA to upgrade <Z> number of rules, which should be disabled
When user hovers on the CTA to upgrade multiple rules
Then a message should be displayed that informs the user why the rules cannot be updated

Examples:
  | Z                               |
  | a few rules on the page, e.g. 2 |
  | all rules on the page, e.g. 12  |
```

#### **Scenario: User can upgrade all available conflict-free prebuilt rules at once**

**Automation**: 1 e2e test with mock rules + integration tests with mock rules that would test /status and /upgrade/\* endpoints in integration.

```Gherkin
Given X prebuilt rules are installed in Kibana
And for Y of the installed rules there are new versions available
And those Y new versions don't have conflicts with the current versions
And user is on the Rule Management page
When user opens the Rule Updates table
Then Y rules available for upgrade should be displayed in the table
When user upgrades all rules
Then success message should be displayed after upgrade
And user should NOT see a CTA to upgrade prebuilt rules
And user should NOT see a number of rules available to upgrade
```

> #### **Scenario: User cannot upgrade all prebuilt rules at once if they have upgrade conflicts**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### **Scenario: User cannot upgrade all prebuilt rules at once if some rules upgrade conflicts**
```

Author: No, this scenario is when ALL rules have conflicts, and the Update All button is disabled

When user upgrades one individual rule without previewing it
Then success message should be displayed after upgrade
And the upgraded rule should be removed from the table
And user should see the number of rules available to upgrade decreased by 1
Then user should see a CTA to upgrade all rules
And the CTA to upgrade all rules should be disabled
When user hovers on the CTA to upgrade all rules
Then a message should be displayed that informs the user why the rules cannot be updated
```

#### **Scenario: User can upgrade multiple prebuilt rules selected on the page**
#### **Scenario: User can upgrade only conflict-free rules when a mix of rules with and without conflicts are selected for upgrade in the Rules Table**

**Automation**: 1 e2e test with mock rules + integration tests with mock rules that would test /status and /upgrade/\* endpoints in integration.
**Automation**: 1 e2e test with mock rules

```Gherkin
Given X prebuilt rules are installed in Kibana
And for Y of the installed rules there are new versions available
And a subset Z of the rules have conflicts with the current versions
And user is on the Rule Management page

> When user opens the Rule Updates table

Reviewer: Shouldn't use be on Rule Upgrade page?

> #### **Scenario: User can upgrade only conflict-free rules when user attempts to upgrade all rules and only a subset contains upgrade conflicts**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### **Scenario: User can upgrade only conflict-free rules when attempting to upgrade all rules**
```

> And a subset Z of the rules have conflicts with the current versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And Z (where Z < Y) rules have conflicts with the current versions
```

When user confirms the action in the modal
Then success message should be displayed after upgrade informing that W rules were updated
And the W upgraded rules should be removed from the table
And the remaining Z - W rules should still be present in the table
And user should see the number of rules available to upgrade decreased by W number of upgraded rules

Examples:
  | Z                               |
  | a few rules on the page, e.g. 2 |
  | all rules on the page, e.g. 12  |
```

#### **Scenario: User can upgrade all available prebuilt rules at once**
#### **Scenario: User can upgrade only conflict-free rules when user attempts to upgrade all rules and only a subset contains upgrade conflicts**

**Automation**: 1 e2e test with mock rules + integration tests with mock rules that would test /status and /upgrade/\* endpoints in integration.
**Automation**: 1 e2e test with mock rules

```Gherkin
Given X prebuilt rules are installed in Kibana
And for Y of the installed rules there are new versions available
And a subset Z of the rules have conflicts with the current versions
And user is on the Rule Management page

> When user opens the Rule Updates table

Reviewer: Should user be on Rule Upgrade page?

> A modal window should inform the user that only Z rules without conflicts will be upgraded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A modal window should inform the user that only K (where K < Z) rules without conflicts will be upgraded
```

> Then success message should be displayed after upgrade informing that Z rules were updated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then success message should be displayed after upgrade informing that K rules were updated
```

> And the Z upgraded rules should be removed from the table
> And the remaining Y - Z rules should still be present in the table
> And user should see the number of rules available to upgrade decreased by Z number of upgraded rules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And the K upgraded rules should be removed from the table
And the remaining M = Y - K rules should still be present in the table
And user should see the number of rules available to upgrade decreased by K number of upgraded rules
```

Author: applied
